A lot of them don't have grandmas and grandpas of their own,
so I'm kind of a surrogate grandma, auntie. Differentiate yourself from
what people expect the system to be like.
And that means going above and beyond. And it starts with that very
first visit when someone connects with you. My role is
to do one to one with members that come in that
would like to speak with an elder. I usually
ask them if they would like prayers, to be cleansed with a smudge
or cedar. I was told by a very wise person whose opinion
I respect is that by and large it will take three to five
years for you to win the trust of most Indigenous people because of
the background of what their previous experience with the healthcare system
has been like. Stigma. Yeah. At Kilala, we don't hold judgment.
And anyone who walks through that door is treated with respect and kindness.
In my 20 year career as a family doctor, I can see the
difference. When you consistently show up and treat people
with respect and dignity and they do not experience discrimination, and
again, they're coming in expecting to be discriminated against.
That is the norm, sadly. Because anywhere else
that they have been during their life journey
has been full of judgment and labelling. And to get someone's trust,
it's multiple acts of kindness and respect, and it's across the whole system.
So having a place that's respectful, myself acknowledging just that
I'm from a settler family, is part of my introduction.
They come in seeking help because they couldn't get it anywhere else because
of the way they were treated and looked at.
Asking things about people's family, their culture, getting to know them
as a person are all things that you need to do.
We know we need to do that to provide good medical care.
When they come here, they are reconnected with their culture, either through
visiting with me, you know, doing smudging and prayers with them,
or joining a circle in the Hummingbird Room. The investment in the relationship
is paramount 'cause in this if people don't trust you, they're not going
to share their information with you and then you can't make good decisions.
It would be good for VCH staff to get an understanding of the
people that come to them for treatment and care,
to know where they come from and who they are
and why they are here. If I'm having that first encounter and I
know this is probably a one off meeting, I'm going to take extra
time with that person. I am going to do a proper introduction,
make sure that I introduce myself. I am going to make sure I
do shared informed decision making to the best possible level that I can.
Again, we know it takes a bit more time, but we know it
has better outcomes. I'm going to make sure
I explain things so that people take enough time and detail.
I know this is hard in a busy emergency, and I worked at a emergency for
a long time. When they walk through that door,
you have a kind word or a smile,
even just a hello and a first name.
It just brings them up and just know
that they're not there because they want to be. They don't do drugs
because they say, I've got to do this, I've got to do that. No,
they don't do that. There's something in their past life.
It's just best to understand. Your marker of success
above anything else that you're supposed to do in that clinical encounter
is that they choose to come back and see you again.